
# Refactor to Streams - Coding Kata
Solving java streams kata from victorrentea's https://github.com/victorrentea/kata-streams-java

---
# **Cheat Sheet**

**Stream APIs**

1. allMatch(Predicate) - boolean - whether all elements match the predicate
2. noneMatch(Predicate) - boolean - whether none of the elements match the predicate
3. anyMatch(Predicate) - boolean - whether any element of the stream match the predicate
4. Stream.concat(Stream a, Stream b) - Stream - concat elements from first stream with second stream
5. count() - long - returns count of elements in the stream
6. distinct() - Stream<T> - return Stream of distinct elements
7. Stream.empty() - Stream<T> - returns empty Stream
8. filter(Predicate) - Stream<T> - returns Stream with elements which match the predicate
9. findAny() - Optional<T> - returns some element of the stream
10. findFirst() - Optional<T> - returns first element of the stream
11. flatMap(Function) - Stream<T> - returns stream consisting of result replacing each element of this stream with contents of mapped stream produced by applying mapping function to each element - used when each element in stream produces another stream/collection
12. flatMapToInt(Function) - IntStream
13. flatMapToDouble(Function) - DoubleStream
14. flatMapToLong(Function) - LongStream
15. forEach(Consumer) - void - performs action on each element of the stream(order of applying action is not guaranteed)
16. forEachOrdered(Consumer) - void - preserves the order of elements which it encounters
17. generate(Supplier) - Stream<T> - returns infinite sequential stream, each element is generated by Supplier
18. iterate(seed, UnaryOperator) - Stream - returns infinite sequential ordered stream, produced by applying function onto the seed element, seed, f(seed), f(f(seed))
19. limit(long size) - Stream - returns stream with number of elements not more than the size
20. skip(long n) - Stream<T> - returns elements after discarding first n elements
21. map(Function) - Stream - returns stream consisting of result containing element with applied Function
22. mapToInt - IntStream
23. mapToDouble - DoubleStream
24. mapToLong - LongStream
25. max(Comparator) - Optional<T> - returns maximum element from the stream based on comparator
26. min(Comparator) - Optional<T> - returns minimum element from the stream based on comparator
27. Stream.of(T ...values) - Stream<T> - returns sequential elements of Stream, where elements are values
28. Stream.of(T t) - Stream<T> - returns Stream containing one element
29. peek(Consumer action) - Stream<T> - returns Stream containing elements of this stream, but performs action on those elements when elements are consumed from resulting stream
30. reduce(BinaryOperator) - Optional<T> - returns Optional value after performing reduction on elements of the stream
31. reduce(identity, BinaryOperator) - Optional<T> - returns Optional value after performing reduction on elements of the stream using identity value
32. sorted() - Stream<T> - returns Stream sorted according to natural order
33. sorted(Comparator) - Stream<T> returns Stream sorted based comparator function
34. toArray() - Object[] - returns array consisting all the stream elements
35. toArray(IntFunction) - returns array consisting of elements of this stream, creates final array of type specified in generator IntFunction. Ex. (Stream.of(1,2).toArray(String[]::new))